# 1.1.1 What Is Cybersecurity?

- Cybersecurity is the ongoing effort to protect individuals, organizations and governments from digital attacks by protecting networked systems and data from unauthorized use or harm.

    - Personal
        On a personal level, you need to safeguard your identity, your data, and your computing devices.
    - Organizational
        At an organizational level, it is everyone’s responsibility to protect the organization’s reputation, data and customers.
    - Government
        As more digital information is being gathered and shared, its protection becomes even more vital at the government level, where national security, economic stability and the safety and wellbeing of citizens are at stake.


# 1.1.2 Protecting Your Personal Data

- Personal data is any information that can be used to identify you, and it can exist both offline and online.

# 1.1.3 Your Online Identity
    
    When choosing a username, it’s important not to reveal any personal information. It should be something appropriate and respectful and should not lead strangers to think you are an easy target for cybercrimes or unwanted attention.

    Some other useful tips to help you generate your username: 

    Don’t use your full name or parts of your address or phone number.
    Don’t use your email username.
    Don’t use the same username and password combination, especially on financial accounts.
    Don’t choose a super-odd username and then reuse it again and again — it makes you easier to track.
    Don’t choose a username that gives clues to your passwords such as a series of numbers/letters or the first part of a two-part phrase, such as knock-knock or starlight, or the department in which you work, such as IT.
    Do choose a username that’s appropriate for the type of account, i.e., business, social or personal.

# 1.1.4 Your Data

Medical records
Every time you visit the doctor, personal information regarding your physical and mental health and wellbeing is added to your electronic health records (EHRs). Since the majority of these records are saved online, you need to be aware of the medical information that you share.

And these records go beyond the bounds of the doctor’s office. For example, many fitness trackers collect large amounts of clinical data such as your heart rate, blood pressure and blood sugar levels, which is transferred, stored and displayed via the cloud. Therefore, you should consider this data to be part of your medical records.

Education records
Educational records contain information about your academic qualifications and achievements. However, these records may also include your contact information, attendance records, disciplinary reports, health and immunization records as well as any special education records including individualized education programs (IEPs).

Employment and financial records
Employment data can be valuable to hackers if they can gather information on your past employment, or even your current performance reviews.

Your financial records may include information about your income and expenditure. Your tax records may include paychecks, credit card statements, your credit rating and your bank account details. All of this data, if not safeguarded properly, can compromise your privacy and enable cybercriminals to use your information for their own gain.

# 1.1.5 Where Is Your Data?
This has got you thinking. Only yesterday, you shared a couple of photos of your first day on the job with a few of your close friends. But that should be OK, right? Let’s see…

You took some photos at work on your mobile phone. Copies of these photos are now available on your mobile device.
You shared these with five close friends, who live in various locations across the world.
All of your friends downloaded the photos and now have copies of your photos on their devices.
One of your friends was so proud that they decided to post and share your photos online. The photos are no longer just on your device. They have in fact ended up on servers located in different parts of the world and people whom you don’t even know now have access to your photos.

# 1.1.6 What's More...
This is just one example that reminds us that every time we collect or share personal data, we should consider our security. There are different laws that protect your privacy and data in your country. But do you know where your data is?

# 1.1.7 Smart Devices
Consider how often you use your computing devices to access your personal data. Unless you have chosen to receive paper statements, you probably access digital copies of bank account statements via your bank’s website. And when paying a bill, it’s highly likely that you’ve transferred the required funds via a mobile banking app.

But besides allowing you to access your information, computing devices can now also generate information about you.

Wearable technologies such as smartwatches and activity trackers collect your data for clinical research, patient health monitoring, and fitness and wellbeing tracking. As the global fitness tracker market grows, so also does the risk to your personal data.

# 1.1.8 What Do Hackers Want?
So, with all this information about you available online, what do hackers want? Of course, they want your money.

Can you think of an example that you have experienced yourself or that you have heard or read about, where cybercriminals have accessed or tried to access financial information online?

# 1.1.9 Identity Theft
Not content with stealing your money for short-term financial gain, cybercriminals are invested in the long-term gain of identity theft.

Select the cards for two examples of how they might do this.

1.1.10 Who Else Wants My Data?

It’s not just criminals who seek your personal data.

Your Internet service provider (ISP)

Your ISP tracks your online activity and, in some countries, they can sell this data to advertisers for a profit.

In certain circumstances, ISPs may be legally required to share your information with government surveillance agencies or authorities.

Advertisers 
Targeted advertising is part of the Internet experience. Advertisers monitor and track your online activities such as shopping habits and personal preferences and send targeted ads your way.

Search engines and social media platforms 
These platforms gather information about your gender, geolocation, phone number and political and religious ideologies based on your search histories and online identity. This information is then sold to advertisers for a profit.

Websites you visit
Websites use cookies to track your activities in order to provide a more personalized experience. But this leaves a data trail that is linked to your online identity that can often end up in the hands of advertisers!